This part will be fun
as you will apply
the Naive Bayes classifier
on real test examples.
It is similar to what you did
in the first video of the week,
but we'll cover some
special corner cases.
Once you have
trained your model,
the next step is to test it.
You do so by taking
the conditional probabilities
you just derived.
You use them to predict
the sentiments of
new unseen tweets.
After that, you'll evaluate
your model performance,
and you will do so just like
how you did it in the last week.
You use your test sets
of annotated tweets.
With the calculations
you've done already,
you have a table with
the Lambda score
for each unique word
in your vocabulary.
With your estimation
of the logprior,
you can predict sentiments
on a new tweet.
This new tweet says,
"I passed the NLP interview."
You can use your model
to predict if this is
a positive or negative tweet.
Before anything else, you
must pre-process this text,
removing the punctuation,
stemming the words,
and tokenizing to produce
a vector of words like this one.
Now, you look up each word from
the vector in your
log-likelihood table.
If the word is found,
such as I pass, the,
and NLP, you sum over all the
corresponding Lambda terms.
The values that don't show
up in the table of Lambdas,
like interview, are considered
neutral and don't contribute
anything to the score.
Your model can only give
a score for words
it's seen before.
Now, you add the log
prior to account for
the balance or imbalance of
the classes in the datasets.
This score sums up to 0.48.
Remember, if this score
is bigger than 0,
then this tweet has a
positive sentiment.
Yes, in your model
and in real life,
passing the NLP interview
is a very positive thing.
You just predicted the sentiment
of a new tweet, and
that's awesome.
It's time to test
the performance of
your classifier on unseen data,
just like you already did for
a different scenario in
the previous module.
Let's quickly
review that process
as applied to Naive Bayes.
This week's assignments
includes a validation set.
This data was set aside during
training and is composed
of a set of raw tweets,
so X_val and their
corresponding sentiments Y_val.
You'll have to implement
the accuracy function
to measure the performance
of your trained model,
represented by the Lambda table
and the logprior
using these data.
First, compute the score
of each entry in X_val,
like you just did previously.
Then evaluate whether each
score is greater than 0.
This produces a vector
populated with zeros and ones,
indicating if the
predicted sentiment
is negative or
positive respectively.
For each tweet in
the validation sets.
With your new
predictions vector,
you can compute the accuracy of
your model over the
validation sets.
To do this part,
you will compare your predictions
against the true value
for each observation from
your validation data, Y-val.
If the values are equal and
your prediction is correct,
you'll get a value of one
and zero if incorrect.
Once you have compared
the values of
every prediction
with the true labels
of your validation sets,
you can compute the
accuracy as the sum of
this vector divided
by the number of
examples in the validation sets,
just like you did for
the logistic regression.
Let's revisit everything
you just did.
To test the performance of
your Naive Bayes model,
you use a validation set
to allow you to predict
the sentiment score for
an unseen tweet using
your newly trained model.
Then you compared
your predictions with
the true labels provided in
the validation sets
to get the percentage
of tweets that were correctly
predicted by your label.
Then you compared
your predictions with
the true labels provided
in the validation sets.
This allowed you to
get the percentage of
tweets that were correctly
predicted by your model.
You also saw that words
that don't appear in
the Lambda table are
treated as neutral words.
Now you know how to apply
the Naive Bayes method
to test examples.
In the coding exercise
at the end of the week,
you will use it to
classify tweets.
Next, I'll show you
other things it can do.